---
layout: post
title: Japan!
description: All the awe and wonder from my first trip to Japan
summary:
tags: travel, japan
---

The limited exposure I had to Japan, through all the shows and books consumed, had these different pieces of film that I'd mentally clipped on to different strings in my mind's darkroom. The two weeks I spent there were about watching these primitives take shape with awe. This trip was like no other for me, because I had these primitives to build upon, which mostly consisted of cultural inquiries and I now have more hypotheses that I want to explore in future trips.

Starting to getting help from strangers right from landing at the Narita airport until leaving, I was politely forgiven as a baka gaijin and was not even noticed as an outsider (except for an uncle who disapprovingly stared at the hem of my coat for 3 straight minutes as I fiddled with the lint on it, on the train(erm.. who was probably worried that I was polluting the pristine environs (?))). Starting from using sign language to helplessly watching my brother every time somebody asked me something, by the end, I could confidently use all the translating tools at one's disposal and place an order (+ request other things! onega ishimasu), except for struggling to master 'daijoubu desu' that always needed a sign language supplement. Fun times for the people behind me in the Shinjuku Starbucks queue where 'daijoubu desu' as question and answer was exchanged a gazillion times, until I realised I could've responded with a simple 'yes'. Except for one tired station master, there was not a single person in a customer-facing role who didn't greet with cheerfulness and patience! It showed what high standards businesses and people are held to, especially through reviews which rarely cross 4/5 even for the top-rated establishments, with elaborate comments on what was great or not in the experience.

Thoughtfulness. I was constantly asking myself how this is built into the culture, seeing as there are many philosophical concepts embedded into the ways of the Japanese day to day life. Every space is thoughtfully designed to be inclusive, with ramps, baby stroller straps on bus seats, baby holder seats in public toilets. And also safe - a building undergoing facade repairs in a bylane had boundary scaffolding not encroaching the pavement, with two people in reflective safety jackets on either side looking out for and signalling to the rare vehicle/pedestrian traffic. There was no risk of getting hit by a vehicle when walking completely zoned out, if one kept watch on the pedestrian traffic lights.

